1854 data prepper 2.4.0 announcement blog (#1892)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2023-08-17-Announcing-Data-Prepper-2.4.0.md

---
layout: post
title:  "Announcing Data Prepper 2.4.0"
authors:
- sudipto
- kkondaka
- nsifmoh
- dlv
date: 2023-08-17 14:30:00 -0500
categories:
  - releases
meta_keywords: Data Prepper 2.4.0
meta_description: Data Prepper 2.4.0 reads from Kafka, has more features for reading and writing to S3, and more.
---

> OpenSearch announces the release of Data Prepper 2.4.0. 

Author: I took the suggestion as-is.

          include_prefix:
          - "new"
    scheduling:
      interval: PT12H #Scan every 12 hours
      count: 10       #Run 10 scans
```

See the documentation for complete set of [configurable options](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sources/s3/).

## Filtering in sinks

User can configure the option of “include_keys” and “exclude_keys” under sink to allow or deny data being written to sinks. 
This provides flexibility to ingest data from any source, apply common enrichments using a processor chain and selective send data to a specific sink like OpenSearch and send all other data to sink like S3 for archival purpose. 
Archived data in S3 can be written in Parquet so it can be easily be queried by any other compatible engine. 
Users can also then leverage S3 batch processing to hydrate archived data back to OpenSearch if needed for richer analytics. 
Such filtering enables you to optimize your storage and reduce costs by sending specific data to specific sinks.

```
sink:
- opensearch:
  include_keys:
  - srcport
  - dstport
  - srcaddr
  - dstaddr
  - start
  - end

- s3:
  exclude_keys:
  - version
  - interfaceId
```

> S3 sink codecs

Reviewer: Rewrite for this section:

--- 

Data Prepper 2.4.0 adds new codecs to the [S3 sink](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/data-prepper/pipelines/configuration/sinks/s3/):

- **JSON codec**: The JSON codec writes an S3 objects as a valid JSON object and includes all events sent to S3 in the JSON array. This is useful when integrating with systems that expect JSON objects.
- **Arvo codec**: The Arvo codecs gives you the ability to define Arvo schemas and write events in the Arvo format.
- **Parquet codec**: The [Apache Parquet (Parquet)](https://parquet.apache.org/) codec lets you use the Parquet columnar format. By saving you data in the Parquet format, you efficiently retrieve that data at a later time for analysis. You can also define your schema in the Avro format inside the Parquet codec.
- **CSV codec**: The CSV codec allows you to write events in a delimited format, such as TSV or CSV.

The following example configures an Avro codec with a schema for network traffic:

```json
s3:
  codec:
    avro:
      schema: >
        {
          "type" : "record",
          "namespace" : "org.opensearch.dataprepper.examples",
          "name" : "NetworkTraffic",
          "fields" : [
            { "name" : "sourcePort", "type": "int"},
            { "name" : "destinationPort", "type": "int"},
            { "name" : "sourceAddress", "type" : "string"},
            { "name" : "destinationAddress", "type" : "string"},
            { "name" : "bytes", "type": "int"},
          ]
        }
```

Additionally, the S3 sink can now write compressed `gzip` or compressed `snappy` files to reduce your network or storage needs. To use this setting, add the following to your pipeline:

```json
s3:
  compression: gzip
```

* CSV codec - This codec supports writing events as a delimited format, this can be CSV, TSV, or other delimited formats.

For example, you can configure the Avro codec with a schema for network traffic using a similar approach to the following.

```
s3:
  codec:
    avro:
      schema: >
        {
          "type" : "record",
          "namespace" : "org.opensearch.dataprepper.examples",
          "name" : "NetworkTraffic",
          "fields" : [
            { "name" : "sourcePort", "type": "int"},
            { "name" : "destinationPort", "type": "int"},
            { "name" : "sourceAddress", "type" : "string"},
            { "name" : "destinationAddress", "type" : "string"},
            { "name" : "bytes", "type": "int"},
          ]
        }
```

Additionally, the S3 sink can now write compressed gzip or compressed Snappy files to reduce your network and storage needs. 
You can include this in your S3 sink configuration similar to the following.

```
s3:
  compression: gzip # Other option is "snappy"
```

> ## Streaming anomaly detection with high cardinality

Reviewer: Rewrite here:

--- 

The streaming `anomaly_detector` now contains the `identification_keys` options, which creates a Random Cut Forest (RCF) model for each value in the your time-series data. With the `identification_keys` option, anomalies can be detected in unique set of keys.

The following examples create an `anomaly_detection` processor that detects anomalies for each unique IP address:

```json
processor:
- anomaly_detector:
   identification_keys: ["ip"]
   keys: ["latency"]
   mode:
    random_cut_forest:
```

You can write anomalies detected by the processor to a seperate index and create alerts using [document level monitors](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/alerting/api/#document-level-monitors).

Furthermore, you can use the `verbose` configuration in the anomaly detection processor to change the number of alerts and anomalies shown by the processor, `false` for less, `true` for more.

```
processor:
- anomaly_detector:
   identification_keys: ["ip"]
   keys: ["latency"]
   mode:
    random_cut_forest:
```

User can write these anomalies on a separate index and create alerts on these anomalies using [document level monitors](https://opensearch.org/docs/latest/observing-your-data/alerting/api/#document-level-monitors).

We also listened to feedback from customers and took steps towards making the anomaly detection adjustable. 
Notions of anomaly varies across applications as well as use cases. 
For example, how many anomalies would one expect to find in the following schematic?

It is quite natural that some use case would expect all the peaks to be labeled anomalies. 
Yet it is also natural that the peaks at the same repeated level are not considered anomalous and one expects only a few anomalies. 
Data Prepper 2.4.0 introduces a `verbose` configuration in anomaly detection processor. 
It is set to false as a default to reduce alerts and produce fewer anomalies, but can be changed to true to increase recall and address broader use cases.

## OpenSearch sink with 6.8 version

> OpenSearch sink can now write to ElasticSearch 6.8 version. User can specify `distribution_version: "es6"` under OpenSearch sink to write to ES 6.8 versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `opensearch` sink can now write to ElasticSearch 6.8 changing the `distribution_version` setting to `es6`.
```

> Upcoming changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Upcoming changes

Future versions of Data Prepper will include:

- A [`geoip` processor](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/issues/253) for extracting locations from IP addresses.
- The ability to [migrate](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/issues/1985) from older versions of OpenSearch.
- The ability to write to Amazon Simple Notification Service (SNS) using an [SNS sink](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/issues/2938).

For a list of more features we plan to include in future releases, see the [project roadmap](https://github.com/opensearch-project/data-prepper/projects/1).
```
